Install/Update R & RStudio

Before the first session:
You need to have R, Rstudio, and the Tidyverse installed (and updated!). Please follow the instructions below (in order) to ensure you have all you need.

Do you already have R and RStudio installed? IF YES, skip down to the "I have R installed"

“I do not have R installed”
You should install R, RStudio, and tidyverse.

1. Installing R
Windows:
  Go tohttps://cloud.r-project.org/bin/windows/base/
  Click the “Download R 3.5.2 for Windows” link.
  When the file finishes downloading, double-click to install. You should be able to click “Next” to all dialogs to finish the installation.
Mac:
  Go to https://cloud.r-project.org/bin/macosx/
  Click the link “R-3.5.2.pkg”
  When the file finishes downloading, double-click to install. You should be able to click “Next” to all dialogs to finish the installation.

2. Installing RStudio
  Go to https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download.
  Under “Installers for Supported Platforms” select the appropriate installer for your operating system:
  When the file finishes downloading, double-click to install. You should be able to click “Next” to all dialogs to finish the installation.

3. Installing tidyverse
  Open RStudio. Go to Tools > Install Packages. Enter tidyverse, then select Install.

“I have R installed”
The class will run more smoothly when everyone is using the same version of R and tidyverse. Please update R, tidyverse, and RStudio.

1. Verify R version
  Open RStudio. At the top of the Console (the lower lefthand box in RStudio) you will see session info. The first line tells you which version of R you are using. If RStudio is already open and you’re deep in a session, type R.version.string to print out the R version. Do you have R version 4.0.3 (“Bunny-Wunnies Freak Out”) installed? If not, please follow the instructions for updating R; if so, confirm RStudio and Tidyverse are instealled/updated (see below).

1a. Updating R
  Windows
    To update R on Windows, try using the package installr (only for Windows)
    Open R (NOT Rstudio)
    Run the following lines of code:
      install.packages("installr")
      library(installr)
      updateR()
    This will give you prompts asking if you want to update to the newest version - go through the installation process to update R. 
  Mac
    On Mac, you can simply download and install the newest version of R from the web. When you restart RStudio, it will use the updated version of R.

2. Updating RStudio
  From within RStudio, go to Help > Check for Updates 
  Install newer version of RStudio (if available).

3. Updating Tidyverse
  From within RStudio, to update packages, go to Tools > Check for Package Updates. If updates are available, select All (or just tidyverse), and click Install Updates.

Email me if you're having trouble getting any of these three items downloaded/updated/etc. DO NOT get frustrated and give up. I will expect that everyone has this sorted out before our first class. 

Thanks!
